---
layout: post
title: "Liberty: What it means to me"
---

As most people who know me know, I am very, *very* liberal. Occasionally I may agree with conservatives, but by and large those agreements aren't counter to my primary position. Let me lay out my planks for you, however; I won't cite any papers here, so if you have any solid research which contradicts my thinking, please don't hesitate to "email me":mailto:kiyoshi.aman@gmail.com.

First, do no harm; if harm would occur regardless, minimize it within reason. To expand on this: don't hurt anyone if you can help it, but if you don't have a choice (e.g. self-defense), try to limit the damage if you can. This doesn't mean you have to let people walk all over you, though; *you* have the right to be heard too.

You have as little right to interfere in others' lives as they do with your own life. If you feel you must offer assistance, *offer* it but do not force it upon the individuals to whom you are offering it. It is up to those individuals whether they want your help or not, not you. You should also be able to defend yourself, even if it means possessing firearms (so long as you focus on stopping your attacker(s), not killing them).

Keeping both of the above in mind, it is also nobody's business but your own and your partner(s) what you do in the privacy of your own bedroom. As such, no one should dictate such matters, nor attempt to have regulations thereof be passed, nor should they support such regulations. By extension, regulations which try to determine the scope of marriage (i.e., straight vs gay, monogamous vs polygamous, etc.) are also verboten.

Information should be free. Note I said *information*; entertainment is not information. Information arising from entertainment is still, however, information. Copyright law should aim to preserve entertainment for a limited time, as entertainment is often context-sensitive (e.g. most of Heinlein's novels don't make much sense to folks who weren't alive during the Cold War, for the most part).

Corporations are not people, but must still adhere to these principles; however, because they are not people, they must accept government interference where they would, or could, cause harm to consumers. Corporations should also not be permitted to request jury trials, as they *have* no peers. Speaking of corporations...

Patents should grant exclusive license to the specific implementation used by the patentee; if the patentee does not have an implementation, the patent should automatically and irrevocably be forfeit. Patent suits are already, in the US at least, being required to go through the PTO's administrative process for such proceedings rather than regular courts.

"Intellectual property", otherwise known as copyrights & patents, should have a duration of no more than 14 years from publication or issuance of patent; for individuals, this term may be extended indefinitely, but for corporations such renewal is capped at 28 total years. Neither should be issued for laws of physics or other natural phenomena.

